Let's talk about my feelings
in general with TypeScript.
TypeScript you are trading
off developer velocity and
undoubtedly TypeScript makes you
move a little bit slower for
long term velocity and long term bugs.
And the way the reason I say that is like
people love to highlight that thing that I
was just showing you where like it won't
let you call to uppercase and a number.
In general that's not my biggest problem.
That's not generally my
biggest issue with coding,
a much bigger issue is that
immediate feedback cycle of hey,
you're doing this, this has this
type has these things available.
You can you can do these things,
you can't do these things.
And me doing that and then immediately
seeing that inside of my code that right
there is the value
proposition of TypeScript.
So any code that I might like rule of
thumb in my brain is that anything that
I intend to maintain less than,
like two weeks or a month or
something like that, I'll just write in
JavaScript because I intend on going,
I just wanna go fast, right?
I don't wanna fight
the TypeScript compiler for
something that I'm not going to
reap the benefit down the road.
However, if I was gonna start
any long term code base today,
anything that I intended on maintaining
longer than two weeks to a month,
I'm gonna write in TypeScript, right.
Because that maintainability and
readability and documentation all that
kinda thing makes me move faster
in a long term perspective and
means I have to maintain
things less going forward.
So I don't know is that makes sense?
That's the trade off tight.
There are some people that
say like I use TypeScript for
everything no matter what
I'm not that person and
there's other people say I will never use
TypeScript which I think is a mistake.
Okay, question.
>> How does TypeScript
impacts the bundle size?
impact the bundle size?
So let me give you two
sides to that answer.
Simply adding TypeScript to
a project as zero to the bundle.
All the typescript compiler does is
it just takes out the types, right?
So if I go in here and and
run this through the TypeScript compiler
this code will look precisely the same.
It'll just remove this bit, right?
So that part won't make
it into production.
So from that perspective,
it adds literally nothing.
It doesn't add any runtime,
it doesn't anything like that.
TypeScript does not augment
JavaScript in that capacity at all.
Now, what will affect the bundle
size is something like, yeah,
let's look in Moodle, right?
We had to do all this defensive
coding in here Right,
which we didn't have to do
previous to TypeScript.
That will I mean, technically
increase your bundle size, right?
Technically that does increase like
the runtime cost just like a drop in
an ocean amount, right?
So I can confidently say that effectively
it does nothing to your bundle size or
your performance.
But literally, yeah,
you have to do some things like this but
this is such a small amount of code
that even the lowest end device is not
gonna be any slower or
any larger because because of that.
So in other words, not a concern for
performance that's we'll stick with that.
Someone's gonna prove me wrong and
whatever it's fine.
What was the useBreedList return type?
It's not in the GitHub repo.
>> Yeah.
I'll go fix that.
useBreedList return type down here, yeah.
So before I had this returning
without this, which basically is
telling TypeScript this is a,
it's not homogenous, right?
It's not all the same type, so therefore
anything that, any one index in here
can either be a string list or
it can be of type status, right?
Cuz breed, this is a list of strings
status of type status here, right?
Which is not true, right, we actually have
index zero is hard typed as a thing and
index one is hard typed as a thing.
So therefore we have to have
this as string array so
that this is always a string array and
this is always a status.
And the other thing is like,
this can't have anything else in it right?
So there's no index 2.
You might be able to take it out and it
might still work, I don't know, let's try,
let's just run the type checker again.
NPM run type check.
No, see, it actually will air out there,
so you actually do have to do that.
I think you'll probably see
having watched me done this and
like I've done this a bunch of times now,
but like,
writing TypeScript code has a lot
of guests and check, right?
Did I upset the compiler?
Did I satisfy the compiler?
And I just do that cost?
So that's what when I
say fight the compiler,
I really just mean that I'm doing
a bunch of guessing checking.
Cool I will say for however often I have
to fight the compiler, I think in equal
amounts on the other side of that,
that I get something right away that
I would not have gotten right away.
Because the TypeScript compiler told me
you're I expect that you're about to get
this out of this right.
So I like I call a method that I'm
unfamiliar with and then tells me,
this is what this object looks like.
Previously, I either have to go
read the documentation to what
lodash dot something gives me right?
Or I would have to run my code and
console log out the object to
see what I got back, right?
Type script really helps you out in
those kind of situations like, hey,
here's your return type.
Here's all the stuff you can
expect to get back from that.
Here's you can,
I didn't show you this but let's see.
What's a good example here.
I mean here, like, request breathers
if I just right command click on it,
or I think it's Ctrl Click in Windows.
It'll highlight here you can
see request releases here.
So it'll show me that it's there.
Or if I do something like, fetch, it'll
actually take me to the API definition
here, which obviously this
one's a little dense, right?
This is actually for the browser but
I can actually see the entire type here.
Okay, fetch takes an input.
It takes an a knit,
which I don't know what that is, and
it returns a promise with a response.
And let's say I don't know what that is.
I'm gonna right click on that.
This is what a request and it is.
It has a body, it has a cache credentials.
This is something I would have had
to go to MDN to figure out but
now that I'm just command clicking on
it in my VS code I can just pop around
the various different API's here so I
don't know what a request credentials is.
Command click it can be include,
omit or same origin neat, right?
So this kind of like,
really fast go to definition
hopping in code is super useful.
Or you can even do it in your code.
So, where do I use breed?
That's in search params.
So if I go to search params.TSX and I have
this like what is used breed list write?
What idiot wrote that?
This idiot did.
But if I command click on it, it'll
take me to my code here's like, okay,
here's is useBreedList and then I can
read the code that someone else wrote.
Now, if you're writing like Java or
like C++ like this is like yeah,
I do this all day, right?
But for people writing JavaScript,
go to definition is a revelation for us or
at least what like I missed it
from when I used to write Java.
TypeScript really allows your
tools to like be augmented,
which is, as a developer
tools pm I'm very into that.
Cool, any other questions
about TypeScript?
Yeah?
>> With this code and config and
stuff work with Webpack or
what would you have to do to get
it to work and with Webpack?
>> Yeah, so the code and the config would
all work with Webpack, cuz basically
all of these tools are just bringing in
the TypeScript compiler and running that.
So Parcell does it that way,
Webpack does it that way, yes,
build all of them they're
gonna do it that way.
The question then becomes like,
how do you set it up?
And I think with Webpack there is just
a TypeScript plugin that you include and
it'll run the TypeScript compiler is one
of the steps of Webpack building things.
And then you'd have to have your Babel
config ready to deal with types.
That'd be it,
Yeah it shouldn't be terribly difficult.
This TypeScript is not hard
to set up in most projects.
It's hardest to get to play nice
with ES lint to be honest but
once it does then you can do
a lot of really cool stuff.
>> What's your experience of how much
TypeScript is used day to day at
the companies you've worked in?
>> That's a good question.
I would say most big companies that
I know of now use some sort of typed
JavaScript or if they're not currently
they're all talking about it.
And I think they all just recognize that
when you have lots of engineers working on
the same project it's just a really
good tool to make sure that
everything plays nice together.
In theory it reduces the amount of
runtime errors that you're gonna get but
again I don't think that's the biggest
benefit I think the biggest benefit is
the productivity of the engineers
work working on it.
So yeah I would say most big companies
are either on it or moving towards it.
Atleast the ones that I work with.
It's a good skill to know for sure and so
I'll just plug Mike's course again like if
you want to get in depth into TypeScript
Mike does a good job of going through it.